---
---

# [AtCoder Beginner Contest 143](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc143)
---


# [AtCoder ABC143 A - Curtain](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc143/tasks/abc143_a)


## keywords
- max 

## solution
## similar 
---




# [AtCoder ABC143 B - TAKOYAKI FESTIVAL 2019](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc143/tasks/abc143_b)


## keywords 
- cumulative sum

## solution
## similar
---



# [AtCoder ABC143 C - Slimes](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc143/tasks/abc143_c)

## keywords 
- greedy

## solution
- if adjacent slimes' color are different, increment answer

## similar
---




# [AtCoder ABC143 D - Triangles](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc143/tasks/abc143_d)


# keywords 
- brute-force
- fix 2 and search remaining 1 efficiently 
- binary search
- shakutori method
- convolution


## solution
### solution 1
- total $a, b, c$ patterns is $N\choose{3}$
- let $a \lt b \lt c$
- if brute-force $a, b$ and search $c$ with binary search or shakutorimethod
- $O(N^2\log{N})$ (binary search)
- $O(N^2)$ (shakutori method)

### solution 2
- convolution
- for detail, see [editorial](https://img.atcoder.jp/abc143/editorial.pdf)


## similar
---




# [AtCoder ABC143 E - Travel by Car](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc143/tasks/abc143_e)


## keywords 
- DP
- floyd warshall
- create another graph from shortest dist matrix of original graph.


## solution
- at first, compute all to all shortest dist with Floyd-Warshall algorithms
- create a new graph from the shortest dist matrix.
  - if $\text{dist}_{i, j} \le L$, add edge $i$ to $j$ with cost $1$.
- apply second floyd-warshall to the graph.

## similar
---




# [AtCoder ABC143 F - Distinct Numbers](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc143/tasks/abc143_f)
## keywords 
- find maximum possible value
- binary search
- calculate $\forall{k}, 1 \le k \le N$
  - something is monotonic on $k$
  - shakutori method
- mathematical induction


## solution
### solution 1
- consider $\forall{k}, 1 \le k \le N$, fix $t :=$ maximum operation count and check the value is possible or not.
- $t_0 :=$ maximum $t$ $0 \le t \le \lfloor\frac{N}{k}\rfloor$ can be binary searched.
- consider the condition to satisfy.
  - at first, answer is not depents on the number on cards but on the count of each kind.
  - thus, calculate $B_{A_i}$ := bincount of $A_i$. for $B_j, 0 \le j \lt N$
  - consider trivial lower limit. 
    - $\sum_{j}{\min{(B_j, t)}} \ge tk \because$ we take $k$ numbers at least $t$ times and duplication of numbers is not allowed.
    - here, suppose $\displaystyle{\lfloor\frac{\sum_{j}{\min{(B_j, t)}}}{t}\rfloor} = k$ and consider prove this.
    - let $_tB\prime_{j} := \min{(B_j, t)}$
    - let $f(t) := \displaystyle{\lfloor\frac{\sum_{j}{_tB\prime_j}}{t}\rfloor}t$
    - then, $f(t) = tk, \forall{j}\ _tB\prime_j \le t$ 
    - proof is like following.
      - it's trivial that $f(t - 1) = (t - 1)k$ is achievable if $f(t) = tk$ is achievable.
      - $\forall{j}\ _{t - 1}B\prime_j \le t - 1$ is also achievable $\because$ count of $_tB\prime_j = t$ must be less than or equal to $k$ because if count of $_tB\prime_j = t$ is greater than $k$, $f(t) = tk$ cannot be achievable (contradiction).
- $\therefore$ answer for $k$ is maximum $t$ satisfying $\sum_{j}{\min{(B_j, t)}} \ge tk$
- $\sum_{j}{\min{(B_j, t)}}$ can be caculated with binary search $O(\log{N})$ by preprocessing cummulative sum of $B$.
- total problem $O(N\log^2{N})$

### solution 2
- apply monotonic property of $t$ on $k$
- $t$ is gonna monotonic decreasing on $k$
- $\therefore t$ can be calculated with shakutori method $O(\log{N})$ amortized
- total problem $O(N\log{N})$


### soluttion 3
- further more, $\sum_{j}{\min{(B_j, t)}}$ is monotonic decreasing on $k$.
- $\therefore \sum_{j}{\min{(B_j, t)}}$ can be caculated with shakutori method $O(1)$ amortized.
- total problem $O(N\log{N})$ with bottle necked sort.


## similar
---
